Crammeled eggs, the equivalent of how many eggs probably?
Well, I had to force myself to eat a lot.
I never had been a real big eater.
And I had a hard time getting my weight up.
So I would eat, and then about 10 o'clock, drink a can of, what do they call that?
Nutriman or something.
It was a liquid, it was a supplement for people who had been sick or something that couldn't take regular food.
So it was like a meal in a can.
And I'd drink it in between meals to get the added calories to try to get my weight up.
All right, and then lunch?
And lunch was just a...
See the track team just ate with the regular students most of the time.
So in the early years Cibisa was family style.
So you know it was all done in the first year or two.
Then we went to Dunkin' and they started changing stuff up a little bit in those days.
And then at night we ate late tables.
Lunch was just whatever they served.
It was a very plain but very adequate meal.
Especially when you ate family style you had plenty to eat.
and then at night it wasn't too glamorous being an athlete because we ate late tables which means we just ate an hour after everybody and the same thing and it wouldn't cook later you know so we'd get in there and get it because we didn't eat usually until maybe seven because we'd work out.
Were there some favorite Aggie foods you remember?
Some that you really enjoyed?
I don't remember.
Was there some you didn't like at all?
I'm sure it was, but I don't really.
What quality would you describe A&M food, noratory food?
Oh, I thought it was pretty good, you know.
I mean, I really thought it was better than what you would expect.
And you guys, you all didn't play any games at supper?
You didn't?
No, no.
Well, we got in a little bit.
Usually it was when corps guys were near and it would be between us.
I remember.
One time there was always be a little mouthing because we're late tables and we're there and it's baseball players and track guys mainly would eat about the same time.
So we're standing in the doorway and there's a little mouthing going on with the core guys that are overeating, you know.
And so one of the upperclassmen tells a freshman to grab his guide on his flag and march right through us on the way out.
Well, I'm turned around, talking, and as I turn around, the kid marches right, hits me right there, and I grabbed him as a reflex and threw him, well, the flag went flying, got on.
Here they all come.
Well, here comes a baseball player.
I mean, we're about to have a bra there.
And I mean, and I really worried about running into that guy in my role as executive director, the former student team guy.
He's, you know, coming to my board and says, by the way, you remember me?
I'm the guy you threw that time.
And it turned out not to be much, but it was a tense situation because there was a lot of,
mouthing and little stuff between non-regs and the core guys in those days except when you left the campus and you won.
You know that was where it ended because you're an Aggie and and when I competed they supported me and everything but a lot of the there's a lot of mouthing and but I remember you know going to class with the core guys and it was generally it was mostly fun type stuff.
One time they were marching by Hart Hall
and they used to march right down there and military walk right going to Cebiza.
Well, they had one of the rare snowstorms.
So we up there just having more fun because they're standing straight and they won't waver and we're just clobbering them.
I mean just clobbering them.
Well, we get ready to come out to go to lay tables and walk down there.
We opened the door, and there was 500 snowballs hitting the front door.
And they kept us pinned down in there until we didn't get to eat.
I mean, a couple guys tried to make a run for it, and it was serious.
I mean, you know, they were out there hurt, you know.
So we learned not to push it too far with them because they had one thing going for them.
They were organized and disciplined and obeyed orders.
And, you know, all they had to do was say, we want 2,000 of you right over there now.
Now, the track team had some cohesion.
Who did, if y'all wanted to kind of tease or compare yourselves, who was your, you know, was your rival baseball or basketball?
No, there was kind of a camaraderie with baseball, some reason between track and baseball.
For some reason, and even today those guys I still see and remember visit with them, we were kind of,
For some reason, and this is the same way at the Olympics with track and weightlifters and stuff, had camaraderie and the swimmers.
We kind of gave the swimmers a bad time, you know.
Most of them were pretty boys and all the high school girls came by to see them, you know.
The local girls would cruise by.
The swimmers just seemed to have contacts out and they'd go riding around with the girls so we gave the swimmers a bad time.
But baseball, there was kind of a bond between track and baseball.
They didn't call it that in those days, non-revenue sports, so you know we weren't treated too special and probably most of us preferred that.
And most of those guys went on and did very well, you know, and they had some really good people that were baseball players in those days and on the track team.
I've got good memories of that.
Like in academics.
Almost all of y'all graduated.
Almost all, because there wasn't any other way to go.
Now some baseball players, we had a few that go on and play Major League Baseball, but track there wasn't any other place to go.
I know a very few that didn't.
They might have a little trouble, but they came back and finished almost all of them in those days.
Now did you and Donnie take similar courses?
Yes.
He was in finance, I was in marketing.
So not only were you roommates and good friends, you also academically.
Yeah, we kind of stayed together, yeah.
And quite often you all went to the MSC.
Describe the role the MSC played for students.
Well it was kind of a gathering spot.
You'd go over and drink coffee for a nickel and refills, but you would kind of pull tables together and visit, you know, and it would be
generally did a lot of the same guys and it was core guys and stuff once again.
In those days there was kind of a feeling that we're out here all by ourself and it's kind of like a prison, sing sing on the brazos we used to call the place and and we used to you know sit around and talk about that and you know and lying around about our lot and life and when we ever do this can't wait to get out of here you know.
kind of thing, but that was kind of the gathering place because the post office was there and the MSC coffee place.
Did you get your hair cut there?
Yeah, I got her hair cut there.
On a Saturday, now, on a Saturday,
I guess right at first I got my hair cut.
When I got a vehicle, I started going down to Manor East.
There was a barber down there by the name of Vinzen, and he cuts my hair today.
Where is he?
He's at Redmond Terrace.
He's kind of partially retired so in the summer I got to work around him, but he's cut my hair probably since later in my freshman, early sophomore year.
Is he the fellow in the back?
Uh huh.
Oh okay.
AC.
And you know we've grown old together.
He used to laugh because he can remember how I got my hair cut when I came here because of my
I didn't want it long because I was competing, but I didn't want to burr, so he'd just burr off the back and leave a little part place.
And he said, that's a popular deal with the Corps guys now, but you know, it wasn't back then.
Did y'all bowl any at the MSC?
I didn't.
A little bit, not much.
And Wayne Stark, did you get acquainted with him?
New Wayne Stark.
Did he ever try to get you involved in MSC?
Oh, not much.
He came to me to talk to me about going to Harvard when I got out, and I thought he lost his mind, which he had, and that.
And I got to know Wayne better when I came back to work here, you know.
You know, you'd see Buckwires over and you knew who he was and that was kind of nice even though I wasn't involved in student government.
I mean student government in those days had a dorm representative and they'd come over and beg somebody from the dorm to go over and do it, you know.
The whole structure is built around the Corps and the Corps staff and everything so all that other stuff was just kind of, I was in marketing society
because Herb Thompson was a sponsor.
I was afraid not to go over and be in, and that was one of the few involvements in activities, but you know I, as an athlete, you know, you were pretty busy, you know, and you, they kept
You know the time you got through late tables eating it was eight o'clock a lot of times before you got to study.
If you, you know, and then A&M, maybe that way today in the dorms in those days, that's where a lot of bull sessions took place.
I mean you'd sit there and talk and visit.
But I have good memories about that.
But the dorms were reasonably quiet for study, your old dorm was.
Normally how late did you keep the light on?
We usually go to bed about midnight.
Unless there was a big exam that was worrisome, you know.
And Donnie made good grades.
Yes.
The campus hospital, did you ever have to go to the Quack Shack?
Yeah.
One time we had a, they used to have a deal called Letterman's Association.
and they banned it since then because they had initiation.
First time you lettered you had to go through initiation.
They'd dress you only in a toe sack and then they'd put syrup and feathers and I mean all kind of bad stuff, some bad smelling stuff on you.
They'd tape up your hands and your eyes and take you out and tell you to a tree somewhere and you had to figure out how to get back.
Usually with two or three of you together.
Football would sometimes take them to
Louisiana and it got to work.
A couple guys got hurt and then a couple got arrested.
One time the Stalins had to go over and get them out of the jail over in Navasota.
They arrested them for indecency because all he has a toe sack on down there and they had to take a busload of them.
go see the judge, talk her way out of it, but when I was going through that I got one of the juniors on the track team off to the side, a little distance runner, and I said, I got a track meet in California this week and I can't afford not to go through this because it'll look bad if I don't do it, but I won't be in bed by midnight.
You better get me and take me out somewhere close I can get back in or I'm going to come wake you up when I get back.
You know, threatening him, little guy.
So, man, he was worried about it.
So he took me out of here by, we didn't make it to Welburn and dropped us off on the road, about four of us, and we're trying to get a ride back.
Well, he started worrying about it.
Afraid I still wouldn't get my way back.
So he comes driving down the road to check on us, make sure I'm still okay.
And so we don't know who it is and we dressed like that.
So we jumped over the bar ditch and I landed right on a barbed wire fence and cut my knee open.
And it's kind of an ugly looking deal.
It wasn't real bad, but I had to go and clean up the quack shack and say, look, I got a track meet, you know, so don't stitch it up.
So they put those butterfly deals on it.
And then I lifted weights that afternoon and it ripped open.
But I still got back by midnight and he checked to make sure I was in bed comfortable.
But that's the only time I went.
Did you see a doctor?
Do you remember?
I don't remember that.
It was around midnight.
We got a lecture on what are you guys out doing?
But you know everybody knew what they did in those days and I only think they did it a few more years.
I think Ballard when he came here they finally put a stop because they had a
Were you guys really wearing a toe sack?
That's it.
And nothing else?
No underwear?
Jockey strap.
Oh, you could wear a jock strap.
Okay.
All right.
I mean, you know, I mean it was a real toe sack.
And you were to walk back or whatever way you could.
You know, and that would be hazing today, big time, and everybody would go to jail and whatever.
But I remember Curtis Mills came along as one of the first black athletes to Latter-day and him, and he came to me and said, you know Randy,
I'm kind of afraid to do this.
These guys get drunk, you know, and some of those football players, they might hurt me.
I said, well I'll watch out for you, but I think you ought to do it, you know, because, well everybody went the other way.
Even back in the end, they didn't want to show partial, but they went out of the way not to hurt him or something, you know.
And so I had to
watch out for Curtis to make sure because I mean he became world record holder in a quarter mile you know and you didn't want anything to happen to him but and he went through it and to get it you know get it done and it was you know I mean it was uh it was looking back it was not really a wise thing because you had one kid lose his vision in his eye he got hit with eggs you know rotten eggs on you and stuff you know.
During your describe prods with a cattle prod too which wasn't much fun.
Describe during your days what you saw of the first black students coming to A&M, particularly athletes, and how were they treated?
You know, I never saw one of the track guys that I had contact with in the early days
mistreated.
Now I'm sure they felt like they were some subtle ways maybe or something, or left out of stuff, but there seemed to be, we had some really good ones though.
We had, you know, Curtis Mills and his brother is kind of a maverick and, you know, a little more radical than Curtis.
Marvin, but he was a great athlete.
And McElroy, who was also a track man and a football player and was a
And those guys came in and
were kind of pioneers for them and did a good job.
And there were some basketball players during that time?
Well, they were a little later.
Is that later?
Yeah, I think they came in a little later.
So it was track first?
Football, I think probably Jackie Williams and Willie Blackman and Hugh McElroy and some of them were the first ones.
And as far as you know, they were well treated also.
As far as I know.
See, I don't know of any problems of integration here.
I know of lots and lots of problems of co-education.
The women had, but I don't know of any real problems.
And Fred McClure agrees with me.
And when you track guys were sitting in your table at the dining hall, were the black guys at the table with you?
Sure.
There was no problem for any of us that I know about.
I mean, I don't even remember anybody saying anything, you know.
Do you remember any awkward moments when you all were on the road and stopped, checked in somewhere?
Yeah, you would see that because, you know, there would be signs or something.
But, you know, by then it started changing a little bit.
I don't know whether you can put this in there or not, but I'll let you decide.
I remember Metcalfe, who was a basketball coach, he got on with us one time, we were playing a predominant black team out of Missouri Valley and they were beating the tar out of us.
You got to, you know, you got to get out there and guard those guys.
Don't worry about it.
He ain't going to rub off on you or anything.
Get out there and guard them.
But, you know, he adjusted.
I mean, you know, he coached all white teams and then he was a very good, you know, he brought in some of the early ones and did well.
You know, it was, you know, I felt good about
maybe I didn't look at right, the agenda were well accepted and they were ours.
Once they got here, you know, it changed it.
I mean, those are our guys and nobody else better say anything about them and we didn't either, you know.
And one of the greatest Aggie stories of all time was McElroy, you know, beating LSU down there, catching that pass, you know.
I mean that was one of the great things that smoothed that for a lot of people because he became an instant Aggie legend in front of the LSU people that hadn't had many black athletes play in that stadium.
Describe, during your student years here, describe the student body in general.
What were they like?
Where did they come from?
Most of them came from places like West Texas and smaller towns, and there was a few from Houston and Dallas, but it seemed like most of them came from smaller towns.
A lot of them had a rural farm background.
Most of them were pretty physical kind of guys, not a lot of what we'd call sissies or wimps or anything.
They were, there might be some guys, you had to be careful.
Guys that had a tendency to be a smart aleck or something, the guys in the Corps, because they all looked alike and they wore uniforms and stuff, but there's some of those guys that were really tough and, you know, real.
I mean, you know, you wouldn't want to mess with if they came from a country background.
There was a real toughness, I think.
I thought of most of them as being, you know, really physical, tough guys.
And their basic attitudes and values.
Very conservative and very patriotic in those days.
It doesn't mean they're all
perfect guys or anything, but they had a real strong patriotic deal.
Vietnam was a tough issue and A&M was one of the few places there was very little dissent about it.
After those that went and came back, you know, I think they had a different attitude about it.
I think they saw things a little differently, those that had to go a lot of them, but they would have still gone.
As far as you and your colleagues were concerned, you mentioned blacks, what about Asians, Hispanics?
Did that matter?
No.
Let's see.
We had, you know, Hispanics have always done well at A&M.
And, you know, we just didn't think of them any different.
And we didn't have too many Asian guys on the, on the track team, but we had them in classes and stuff.
And I don't, I don't remember that ever being much of a, I don't remember anything ever happening at A&M that is embarrassing, you know, that way.
And did it matter where people went to church, where they worshiped?
No, I don't think so.
You knew some Catholic boys?
Yeah, sure.
Jews, you know, and I think part of the old core thing took care of that because you all looked like, you know, you didn't know who was rich or who wasn't.
There wasn't a real class system.
This was before fraternities and sororities and all that kind of thing.
And there were some guys that were very wealthy, but they didn't drive the big car here and they didn't, you know,
Religious activities.
When did you first get involved in any camp?
Well Donnie was a Methodist and the Methodist church in Bryan had a lot of pretty girls so he dragged me down there and we'd just go look at them, you know.
But when I got involved in Church of Christ and they had all, most of the churches had a campus program, a Bible chair we called it over there.
It was kind of a place to go for support and you got a lot of support that way.
And was there food on Sunday night?
Well yeah, and then people had a chance in those days to invite the Aggies to their home.
And I still run into people that went to their house today, you know, at our church over there that remember, you know, taking me to Sunday at lunch usually.
Sunday night was usually the time when
You went to Zorapi's or somewhere, you know, but... Did anybody ever worry about what you could... One time, it was 15th year.
Did anybody ever worry about what you could or could not eat as an athlete?
They did, but you know, I didn't, but usually they want you to eat a whole lot more than you wanted to.
All right, break it up in here.
Who were your close undergraduate buddies?
I know Donnie Ayers.
Who else were among your friends?
Well, I had a big shot putter from Fort Stockton, Texas, George Resley, that came in a year or two after, a year after me.
He's class 16.
R-E-S-S?
R-E-S-L-E-Y.
Oh, Resley.
Resley.
And a big German fella.
And kept up with him off and on over the years.
And Jim Sebastian, who was class 65, a half-miler.
David Glover, who was a discus thrower in the real estate business in San Marcos today.
Kept up with them.
And had quite a few of them but those ones I've kind of stayed in close contact with.
Ted Nelson of course class of 65 and we traveled a lot together after you know the regular season was over in the early days to national meets because he was invited to all those kind of meets.
In the dining hall, you all ate normally at the same table.
What kind of eating habits did you all have that might have been a little different from the rest of the folks in there?
Oh, probably not that much different, you know.
In those days,
especially sports like track and stuff it was just like students I mean we didn't expect anything different or did you eat more uh probably a little bit but not too much some of those you know it's most little guys and the core can eat a lot so you know we ate family style in the first few years then uh but you know I think the stories that you hear about big football players today or shot putters eating eight eggs for breakfast and all that and that was never
Never me.
Were there any things that you personally tried to slide away from that you didn't?
Did you drink coffee and iced tea?
Yeah, I did that.
And soft drinks?
I did that after I got down here and found out it wasn't supposed to be bad for you.
What about red meat?
Was that good?
Yeah, it was good.
You know, I was raised in West Texas so red meat and potatoes and red meat was
high protein type things.
I think there was a tendency in those days toward high protein and probably still today by a lot of athletes.
Now were you athletes?
Did you all participate in the A&M traditions like Yale practice?
In those days athletes went to quite a bit of that.
We went to Yale practice during the week and went to the games and supported other sports and
And if we didn't participate, we honored the traditions by not walking on the grass when you're a freshman and stuff like that.
What about, do you remember going to Silver Taps?
Yes, we did that.
What was, how'd you feel?
Well, I think that was the one thing that was, to me, that was the one thing that really made A&M different.
Did you ever go to a Silver Taps for a close acquaintance?
No, I did not while I was in school.
Didn't lose anybody that I was close to.
What about Mustard?
Did you go to a campus Mustard?
Yes, we did.
You know, it failed if it wasn't on a weekend because most weekends we were competing or doing something from by the latter years from January, first of January till the end of July or August
very few weekends I didn't have a track meet when they started having indoor meets in December and January.
Where where were some of the interesting places that you had meets?
Well you know I was looking in a list of some the other day I can't even remember going to that I competed in but uh
You know, places, I can't remember, but, you know, in the states, I went to Pocatello, Idaho and some places like that and, you know, Des Moines, Iowa and, of course, Lawrence, Kansas and those kind of places.
Do you remember any?
Fresno and Mount San Antonio College of California.
What about unusual weather?
Yeah, we had all kinds of that.
not so much you know mostly by the time track season got around it was rain was the only real problem but I remember competing in Europe that you know in northern Sweden above the Arctic Circle had a track meet one time we had competed off the regular tour with Russia and Poland Germany and England then we some of us came back and extended the four or five of the athletes extended the
trip and went to Sweden for 10 meets and went up in the northern part of the Arctic Circle, a little town of about 1,500 people.
And we got there and we stayed in these little cabins.
They're out in the woods.
And got up the next morning and it was snowing in July.
And so, you know, we can't go throwing that.
And I looked down and the track was down just below these cabins.
They didn't have any bleachers really.
And they had all 1,500 people in the town were sitting down there waiting for me to come throw the shot put.
So I got my stuff on and said, I'm gonna go down and take one throw anyway.
You know, these people stand out there in the snow.
And I got down there and I threw 60, it was around 68 feet.
which at that time was the father's throw ever in Europe.
And years later, American shot putters had passed through this little town, you know, where they still make mention of the European records out there.
But when I went down there, there were 1,500 people, and they were sitting around the ring, and there was just enough room for me to throw out there.
And I said, I've got to get psyched up, which I did.
And in the snow, threw 68 feet, which, you know, under good conditions, you'd think you'd throw farther, but it was a motivational time for me.
If they wouldn't have come out there and do that,
And so, you know, that was one of those experiences that I'll never forget.
I remember they gave me for a prize a hat I still have that the Laplanders wear, you know, out chasing the reindeer.
My wife gets it out every Christmas and hangs it on a, puts it out.
And in a meet like that, what did you psychologically, emotionally use to get yourself... Well, it was tough by then.
We're tired.
We've been traveling a lot.
And basically, we're just... My wife happened to be with me then, which is the only time she really traveled to Europe with me.
And they were paying, you know, our travel around expenses.
And so it gave her a chance to see some country.
By then, I didn't care about seeing much country.
and didn't care about throwing much but some of my best memories were in places like that and it was motivational for me to go out there and the people wanting to see you throw well and they always had this expectation of 70 feet which put a lot of pressure on you.
but they were more appreciative over there than they would have been in this country.
They were happy with a 68-foot because they knew that was a good throw, where in the U.S., they'd probably been disappointed.
Now, did anybody anywhere ever offer you a fiscal incentive if you'll throw so much?
No, I never did.
I think you had to ask for those kind of things.
The rules weren't enforced very strongly, but they were such that you had to kind of
probably go out and ask for that, and I really never got involved in that too much.
In all of your competition, as you look back, can you think of any time when anybody ever tried to bribe you or hint at it or in some kind of gambling thing they might have going?
No.
Nobody ever.
Let's see, you had one good shot putter teammate here.
Nationally or internationally, who were your friendly competitors in the shot?
Well, in those days,
You generally were not real friendly with your competitors.
It was just, it was very competitive, you were cordial, there was no mouthing like they have today, there was no trash talking or you even, most of the time you were careful what you even said with the media not to incite them any.
And so it was not where you just sit around and buddied and visited with guys in your particular sport, except I had one
that early on we started rooming together and traveling together and he was a shot putter.
In the early days I was pretty far ahead of him but by the time 68 got around he was on my 68 team and if he hadn't got sick in Mexico City would have made me probably throw farther or I wouldn't have won the gold medal.
But it was Dave Maggard and Dave is still a close friend today and we stay in contact with each other.
He became, he was a high school track coach at that time.
while we were competing.
Then he became assistant coach at Cal Berkeley, where he attended school.
And he was quite a few years older than me.
And then he became the head coach at Cal Berkeley, very successful.
Then became the athletic director at Cal Berkeley.
And then after that became the athletic director at